#summary A grid based AS3 physics engine
#labels PowerGrid,Gridbased,Tilebased

= Introduction =

PowerGrid is a physics engine used by FlashPoint. It's grid based and therefor it has a growth rate complexity of n, not n^2 like most physics engines. This means that it's basically the fastest AS3 physics engine available.


= Details =

Powergrid *can simulate up to 1000 rigidbodies at 30fps* with every single rigidbody touching at least one other rigidbody. With no rigidbodies colliding it can simulate at least a few thousands more.

It can simulate as many *sleeping* rigidbodies as the computer can store in memory, not a single operation is made for sleeping rigidbodies, they're simply not processed. Still, they wake up if something collides with them (Yes, you guessed it right, it's sorcery).

Having most moving objects similar in size boosts performance. This fortunately happens to be the case with most games.

When initializing the engine, you must specify a BitmapData object as the grid. Every pixel in the BitmapData object is a tile. The value of the pixel is the collision layer that it collides with.


*PROS*
  * Decent API and documentation
  * Supports tile-maps with tile collisions
  * Supports collision layers (collision filters)
  * Has 2 primitive rigidbodies: Triangle and Circle
  * Supports groups (compound rigidbodies)
  * *INSANELY FAST!!!*


*CONS*
  * All rigidbodies are stuck inside the grid you specify
  * Huge moving objects can slow things down
  * The source is barely readable